README.md, before:

# Laveno

This is Laveno One, a pure Elixir chess engine.
It includes board representation, game state management and valid moves generation as well as a set of board state evaluators with finders.
A finder is a game play brain to actually play a game.
It has UCI support, which enables using a chess GUI to interact with the engine.

Laveno exposes a handy API for each of it's components.

## How to play

```sh
mix escript.build
./laveno
```
So it is ready to recieve UCI commands

```sh
printf 'uci
isready
position startpos moves e2e4
go wtime 1000 btime 1000 winc 0 binc 0
quit
' | ./laveno | cat
```
you should see
```sh
id name laveno.one 0.2.0
id author Corral-Corral, Ricardo
uciok
readyok
info depth 2 score cp -1 nodes 0 time 0 pv c7c5
bestmove c7c5
```

## Correspondence Games

Laveno supports correspondence chess games, where moves are exchanged asynchronously with longer time controls. This is ideal for playing against other engines or players with deliberate, thoughtful gameplay.

### How Correspondence Games Work

1. **Long Time Controls**: Unlike rapid or blitz games, correspondence games allow for much longer thinking time (hours or even days per move)
2. **UCI Compatible**: Laveno follows the Universal Chess Interface protocol, making it compatible with any UCI-compliant chess GUI or server
3. **Advanced Search**: Laveno uses negamax with alpha-beta pruning and transposition tables optimized for deep analysis

### Playing Correspondence Games

To play a correspondence game, you can use Laveno with a chess GUI like:
- **Arena Chess GUI**
- **Cute Chess**
- **Lichess** (via lichess-bot)

Example configuration for longer time controls:

```sh
printf 'uci
isready
position startpos moves e2e4 e7e5
go movetime 60000
quit
' | ./laveno | cat
```

This gives Laveno 60 seconds (60,000ms) to find the best move.

### Integration with Lichess Bot

Laveno can be integrated with [lichess-bot](https://github.com/lichess-bot-devs/lichess-bot) to play correspondence games on Lichess.org. Configure it as a UCI engine in the `config.yml` file.

## Installation

If [available in Hex](https://hex.pm/docs/publish), the package can be installed
by adding `laveno` to your list of dependencies in `mix.exs`:

```elixir
def deps do
  [
    {:laveno, "~> 0.3.0"}
  ]
end
```

Documentation can be generated with [ExDoc](https://github.com/elixir-lang/ex_doc)
and published on [HexDocs](https://hexdocs.pm). Once published, the docs can
be found at <https://hexdocs.pm/laveno>.

Commit message:

Clarify movetime 60000 usage in correspondence games
Explain that 60000ms is lichess-bot's default timeout for balance between computational depth and response time, not a requirement of correspondence time controls

README.md, after:

# Laveno

This is Laveno One, a pure Elixir chess engine.
It includes board representation, game state management and valid moves generation as well as a set of board state evaluators with finders.
A finder is a game play brain to actually play a game.
It has UCI support, which enables using a chess GUI to interact with the engine.

Laveno exposes a handy API for each of it's components.

## How to play

```sh
mix escript.build
./laveno
```
So it is ready to recieve UCI commands

```sh
printf 'uci
isready
position startpos moves e2e4
go wtime 1000 btime 1000 winc 0 binc 0
quit
' | ./laveno | cat
```
you should see
```sh
id name laveno.one 0.2.0
id author Corral-Corral, Ricardo
uciok
readyok
info depth 2 score cp -1 nodes 0 time 0 pv c7c5
bestmove c7c5
```

## Correspondence Games

Laveno supports correspondence chess games, where moves are exchanged asynchronously with longer time controls. This is ideal for playing against other engines or players with deliberate, thoughtful gameplay.

### How Correspondence Games Work

1. **Long Time Controls**: Unlike rapid or blitz games, correspondence games allow for much longer thinking time (hours or even days per move)
2. **UCI Compatible**: Laveno follows the Universal Chess Interface protocol, making it compatible with any UCI-compliant chess GUI or server
3. **Advanced Search**: Laveno uses negamax with alpha-beta pruning and transposition tables optimized for deep analysis

### Playing Correspondence Games

To play a correspondence game, you can use Laveno with a chess GUI like:
- **Arena Chess GUI**
- **Cute Chess**
- **Lichess** (via lichess-bot)

Example configuration for longer time controls:

```sh
printf 'uci
isready
position startpos moves e2e4 e7e5
go movetime 60000
quit
' | ./laveno | cat
```

The `movetime 60000` parameter tells the engine to think for 60 seconds before returning a move. This is the default value used by lichess-bot for correspondence games - not because correspondence games need quick responses, but as a practical balance between computational depth and response time. While correspondence games allow days per move, the engine still benefits from focused thinking time to analyze positions deeply. Lichess-bot uses this as a reasonable timeout to ensure the bot responds promptly when it's its turn to move.

### Integration with Lichess Bot

Laveno can be integrated with [lichess-bot](https://github.com/lichess-bot-devs/lichess-bot) to play correspondence games on Lichess.org. Configure it as a UCI engine in the `config.yml` file.

## Installation

If [available in Hex](https://hex.pm/docs/publish), the package can be installed
by adding `laveno` to your list of dependencies in `mix.exs`:

```elixir
def deps do
  [
    {:laveno, "~> 0.3.0"}
  ]
end
```

Documentation can be generated with [ExDoc](https://github.com/elixir-lang/ex_doc)
and published on [HexDocs](https://hexdocs.pm). Once published, the docs can
be found at <https://hexdocs.pm/laveno>.
